Add weather station to opensesame rust code and doc (#22)
ElektraInitiative/opensesame: doc/Wetterstation.md

# Weather Station

> This documentation outlines the chosen steps for establishing communication with the CLIMA SENSOR US 4.920x.x0.xxx weather station. The hardware utilized for this communication includes an [A20-OLinuXino-LIME2](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/A20-OLinuXino-LIME2/open-source-hardware) board with [LIME2-SHIELD](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/LIME2-SHIELD/open-source-hardware) and a [MOD-RS485](https://www.olimex.com/Products/Modules/Interface/MOD-RS485/open-source-hardware) module. Two command interpreters, namely THIES-ASCII and MODBUS RTU, can be chosen for communication, with THIES-ASCII being the default option.

Reviewer: Please use one line per sentence, it is easier to review. Always write what we use (RTU vs. ASCII).

Suggestion only fixes one line per sentence:

```suggestion

This documentation outlines the chosen steps for establishing communication with the CLIMA SENSOR US 4.920x.x0.xxx weather station.
The hardware utilized for this communication includes an [A20-OLinuXino-LIME2](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/A20-OLinuXino-LIME2/open-source-hardware) board with [LIME2-SHIELD](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/LIME2-SHIELD/open-source-hardware) and a [MOD-RS485](https://www.olimex.com/Products/Modules/Interface/MOD-RS485/open-source-hardware) module.
Two command interpreters, namely THIES-ASCII and MODBUS RTU, can be chosen for communication, with THIES-ASCII being the default option.
```

Author: with next commit resolved

## Initial Communication Steps

### Pin Identification

> To identify the correct pins, refer to the datasheet. In our case, we used the `UEXT2` pins on the LIME2-Shield. We discovered that the `TX` and `RX` pins of `UEXT2` are connected to the `uart7` of the A20-SoC. In the next step, we searched the device tree for `uart7 (serial@1c29c00)` to determine its address. By checking the system logs using `dmesg | grep '1c29c00'`, we found that `uart7` is mapped to `/dev/ttyS5`.

Reviewer: This should write what users need to do and they shouldn't need the datasheet.

```suggestion

We used the `UEXT2` pins on the LIME2-Shield.
The `TX` and `RX` pins of `UEXT2` are connected to the `uart7` of the A20-SoC.
In the next step, we searched the device tree for `uart7 (serial@1c29c00)` to determine its address.
By checking the system logs using `dmesg | grep '1c29c00'`, we found that `uart7` is mapped to `/dev/ttyS5`.
```

### Using mbpoll
Initially, we attempted to communicate with the [mbpoll](https://github.com/epsilonrt/mbpoll) tool. However, we encountered an issue where the weather station had the default address `0x00`, and mbpoll was unable to send Modbus RTU messages to this address. To resolve this, we had to make some [minor modifications](https://github.com/epsilonrt/mbpoll/issues/39) to the source code of mbpoll and recompile it, enabling communication with address `0x00`.

### Developing Custom Rust Code

In our Rust code, we utilize the `serialport` and `gpio` modules. The `serialport` module allows us to send serial packages to the MOD-RS485 board, while the `gpio` module enables read and write operations by configuring the SCL/SCK (GPIO273) and #SS/SDA (GPIO272) pins. When both pins are set to `0`, the MOD-RS485 is ready to receive packages, and when both are set to `1`, the MOD-RS485 is ready to send packages.

Currently, we are able to observe output on the RS485 bus, but we have not received a response. This could be due to the weather station being set to full-duplex by default, whereas we can only use half-duplex.

> To compile the Rust code, you need to install the `libudev` library. During cross-compilation, we encountered issues with this library, so we opted to compile it directly on the [A20-OLinuXino-LIME2](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/A20-OLinuXino-LIME2/open-source-hardware).

Reviewer: How was it compiled?

Author: Do you mean `libudev`? I downloaded `libudev` from https://packages.debian.org/bullseye/libudev-dev and installed it with `deb -i ...`

Reviewer: So I misunderstood it, I understood the sentence that you compiled `libudev` "directly on theA20-OLinuXino-LIME2". Please rewrite what you did step by step. Btw. why not `apt install libudev-dev`?

# Weather Station
This documentation outlines the chosen steps for establishing communication with the CLIMA SENSOR US 4.920x.x0.xxx weather station. 

> The hardware utilized for this communication includes an [A20-OLinuXino-LIME2](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/A20-OLinuXino-LIME2/open-source-hardware) board with [LIME2-SHIELD](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/LIME2-SHIELD/open-source-hardware) and a [MOD-RS485](https://www.olimex.com/Products/Modules/Interface/MOD-RS485/open-source-hardware) module. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hardware utilized for this communication includes an [A20-OLinuXino-LIME2](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/A20-OLinuXino-LIME2/open-source-hardware) board with [LIME2-SHIELD](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/LIME2-SHIELD/open-source-hardware) and a [MOD-RS485](https://www.olimex.com/Products/Modules/Interface/MOD-RS485/open-source-hardware) module.
```

Two command interpreters, namely THIES-ASCII and MODBUS RTU, can be chosen for communication, with THIES-ASCII being the default option. 

> We will be utilizing the THIES-ASCII interpreter for this project.

Reviewer: Is this still up-to-date?

```suggestion
We will be utilizing the THIES-ASCII command interpreter.
```

## Initial Communication Steps

### Pin Identification

> We used the `UEXT2` pins on the LIME2-Shield.

Reviewer: Use present tense.

```suggestion
We connect MOD-RS485 via [UEXT](https://www.olimex.com/Products/Modules/) on UEXT2 of the LIME2- Shield (UEXT1 can be used for MOD-ENV).
```

The `TX` and `RX` pins of `UEXT2` are connected to the `uart7` of the A20-SoC.
In the next step, we searched the device tree for `uart7 (serial@1c29c00)` to determine its address.
By checking the system logs using `dmesg | grep '1c29c00'`, we found that `uart7` is mapped to `/dev/ttyS5`.

### Using mbpoll
Initially, we attempted to communicate with the [mbpoll](https://github.com/epsilonrt/mbpoll) tool. 
However, we encountered an issue where the weather station had the default address `0x00`, and mbpoll was unable to send Modbus RTU messages to this address. 

> To resolve this, we had to make some [minor modifications](https://github.com/epsilonrt/mbpoll/issues/39) to the source code of mbpoll and recompile it, enabling communication with address `0x00`.

Reviewer: This sounds like it was tried and worked? Please clarify in the text.

> ### Developing Custom Rust Code
> 
> In our Rust code, we utilize the `serialport` and `gpio` modules. 
> The `serialport` module allows us to send serial packages to the MOD-RS485 board, while the `gpio` module enables read and write operations by configuring the SCL/SCK (GPIO273) and #SS/SDA (GPIO272) pins. 
> When both pins are set to `0`, the MOD-RS485 is ready to receive packages, and when both are set to `1`, the MOD-RS485 is ready to send packages.
> 
> Currently, we are able to observe output on the RS485 bus, but we have not received a response. This could be due to the weather station being set to full-duplex by default, whereas we can only use half-duplex.
> 
> To compile the Rust code, you need to install the `libudev` library. 
> During cross-compilation, we encountered issues, so we opted to compile it directly on the [A20-OLinuXino-LIME2](https://www.olimex.com/Products/OLinuXino/A20/A20-OLinuXino-LIME2/open-source-hardware).

Reviewer: I think this is irrelevant now? (libmodbus as the way to go?)

```suggestion
```

#### ASCII

> The initial attempt was to send ASCII messages over the serial connection, as implemented in the `src/weather_station/connection_ascii.rs` file. In the `connection_ascii.rs` file, we attempted to send data to configure the weather station for half-duplex usage. Although we were able to cache the output on the RS-485 bus, we did not receive a response from the weather station. This could be due to the weather station being configured with Modbus-RTU.

Reviewer: Please one line per sentence. Is this still up to date?

#### RTU-Modbus

> The second attempt involved sending data using the libmodbus library, as implemented in the `src/weather_station/connection_modbus.rs` file. For this Modbus connection, we utilized [libmodbus-rs](https://github.com/zzeroo/libmodbus-rs), which provides an implementation of most of the methods from libmodbus. However, we encountered an issue while using [libmodbus-rs](https://github.com/zzeroo/libmodbus-rs), as the `rtu_set_custom_rts` function was not implemented. Therefore, we raised [issue #18](https://github.com/zzeroo/libmodbus-rs/issues/18). To overcome this problem, we plan to program this communication in `C`.

Reviewer: The C program is hopefully only a temporary solution until https://github.com/zzeroo/libmodbus-rs/issues/18 is fixed. Once we have a working C program setting the two pins, please add this to ttps://github.com/zzeroo/libmodbus-rs/issues/18 so that zzeroo sees what we want to achieve. (Maybe there is a better way than `rtu_set_custom_rts`).

### Using minicom
Another approach we considered was utilizing minicom for serial communication since it provides additional options for RS-485. However, we encountered the limitation of being unable to configure the SCL/SCK and #SS/SDA pins in minicom.

## Troubles

> ### MOD-RS485
> When using the [MOD-RS485](https://www.olimex.com/Products/Modules/Interface/MOD-RS485/open-source-hardware) in half-duplex mode, you have to switch SCK and #SS of the UEXT connection. 

Reviewer: Imho this would be simply a bug on our side if this isn't done.

```suggestion
```

### libmodbus-rs
## read_register timeout 

> Because switching of SCK and #SS isn't enabled, so we need to use `rtu_set_custom_rts`, which is not implemented in [libmodbus-rs](https://github.com/zzeroo/libmodbus-rs) so wie need to programm this connection in `C`.

Reviewer: I don't think this will help someone who has timeouts.
